# Identity and Access Control

Azure Files supports identity-based authentication for customers accessing file shares over SMB. In addition, SMB users can also authenticate using a storage account key. NFS file shares rely on network-level authentication and are therefore only accessible via restricted networks. Using an NFS file share always requires some level of networking configuration. File share access over REST APIs uses shared access signatures and storage account keys for specific data management operations.

- Identity-based authentication: Customers can use identity-based access via the Kerberos authentication protocol. Active Directory services store user account information such as usernames, passwords, contact information and so on. Azure Files integrates with common directory services to verify the user account details and enable successful authentication. For SMB, identity-based authentication is the most secure and recommended option.

- Storage account key: A user with the storage account key can access Azure file shares with superuser permissions over SMB and REST. Ideally, only super user administrators should use storage account keys because they bypass all access restrictions. For file shares used by enterprise customers, storage account keys aren't scalable or safe mechanisms for organization-wide access and are therefore not recommended. The recommended security best practice is to avoid sharing storage account keys and use identity-based authentication.

- Shared access signature: Customers accessing over REST can use a shared access signature (SAS) to authenticate with Azure Files. Shared access signatures are used in specific scenarios where independent software vendors develop REST API applications and use Azure Files as a storage solution. They're also used when internal partners need access over REST for data management operations. A shared access signature is a URI that grants restricted access rights to Azure Storage resources. You can use a shared access signature to give clients access to certain storage account resources without having to give them access to your storage account key.
